Docker:

- makes it easy to build,deploy and manage containarized applications.

Container - standalone pckage of software that contains all the required parts like code, runtime,libraries,etc.

A container can bew run on any platform irrespective of the operating system.

Docker provides few tools or services like docker images, docker hub,docker compose.

Docker Images:- file used to execute code in a container
Docker Hub:- public repository of various docker images
Docker Compose:- Tool to run and manage multi-container application easily.

to run a container we can use the command docker run -it mycontainer ubuntu

-it is used to attach the image to a container

docker start - to start a container
docker attach - to attach a container to the existing running images.

docker inspect - used to get detailed report of each container based on the container id, it also helps us in troubleshooting issues.

docker status - to check status and resource utilization of the application.

docker top - to view what are the services that are running in the container.

docker save - to save the current docker image into a tar archive

docker load - to load image into container from a tar archive


Build and Deploy application on docker:

Dockerfile - it is a file that is used to define the set of instructions to build a container.

Dockerfile is the source to build a Docker container, where it contains all the requirements like image name and versiona dn security features,etc

docker build is the command used to build a container using Dockerfile.

docker build -t tag_name - to build a container and tag it with tag_name



Docker Compose:

A tool used to for defining and building multi-continer application.

It uses YAML to describe all the requirements of application

We can define all the options like networking,application services, and volumes in a singke file.

It uses declarative syntax to define our application configurations like image to used,ports to expose, environment variables, and many more parts of the application.

This in turn makes it easy to manage complex applications.

YAML is used for configuration files as it is readable by both human and machine.

We can link two or more containers which needs to be communicated to have better performance.

to run the application we need to use the command "docker-compose up"

to run the application in background "docker-compose up -d"

to stop the application "docker-compose down"


Docker Volume:

Its a feature of docker to persist data sharing across containers where a single volume can be used by multiple containers.

It helps us in eady management of data volumes and managing logs, databases and other persistent data.

It allows us to have scalable data management in docker containers.

Docker Network:

It is the deature of docker to alow containers running on host machines to communicate with each other, that can be either on same host or multiple hosts.

Docker network provides several types of network drivers like, bridge, host,overlay,Macvlan.

Bridge - allows containers to communicte when they are on the same network
Host - allows containers to communicate using the host network stack
Overlay - enables communication between containers running on different platforms or hosts
Macvlan - it provides each container a unique MAC address and makes them appear a independent physicak systems

Docker Network supports network segmentation and isolation which allows us to create multiple networks and assign containers to specific networks.

Docker Swarm -  group of physical or virtual machines running a group of docker containers that are joined to be in a cluster. Doesn't provide automated Scaling. 
