why kubernetes?
what makes kubernetes different from all other container management services?
why it is better than using virtual machines?

Kubernetes - open-source container management service to manage containarized workloads.

why containers over VM's:

Easy application creation and deployment
Provides features to easy and frequent image build and rollbacks
Unlike VM's, we can monitor application health metrics which helps us to maintain our application.
We can run containers built on one platform on any other platform easily irrespective of the Operating System the machines is running.
We can easily  deploy applications by breaking them down into smaller independent pieces which helps to identify and understand the errors easily.


Kubernetes provides few features (Not available in VM's):
1. Easy load balancing and service discovery - it can distribute traffic to containers based on the load that it recives from the users through the ip address or DNS.
2. Easy storage orchestration
3. Automated rollouts and rollbacks: we can describe the desired state we want so that kubernates takes care of transition of current state to desired state at a decenet rate which helps us in managing the load.
4. Automatic bin packing - it manages the allocation of nodes to containers based on the resource requirements.
5. Self healing - checking for status of containers based on the user defined health checks and if container fails to meet them, it does not show to the client and creates a new container and deploys the application along with data available on previous     container and then displays the new container to client and then removes the failed container.
6. It helps us manage our secrets without rebuilding or without exposing the secrets.
7. It helps in autoscaling just by a click and automatically by monitoring the CPU utilization.
8. It provides dual stack features to understand data from both IPv4 and IPv6 based on the packets of data it recieve.

Key points to be taken into consideration when using Kubernetes:
1. It doesnt have inbuilt logging,monitorinh and alerting systems, but users can add these services as plugins.
2. It can not directly deploy application using source code or build the application, it has to be taken care by the user.
3. It doesnot provide application level services like middle-ware (message bus, etc), or data-processing frameworks or databases, which can be run on kubernetes through portable mechanisms like open service broker.
	open service broker - It is an API service to provide backend services to workloads running on kubernetes or SaaS providers.
